The President:
Every month since January,
when I became your President,
I've spoken to you about the
periodic reports of the Labor
Department on the number of
jobs created or lost during the
previous month; numbers that
tell a story about how America's
economy is faring overall.
In those first months, the
numbers were nothing short of devastating.
The worst recession since the
1930s had wrecked havoc on the
lives of so many of
our fellow Americans.
Yesterday, the numbers released
by the Labor Department
reflected a continuing positive
trend of diminishing job loss.
But for those who were laid off
last month and the millions of
Americans who have lost
their jobs in this recession,
a good trend isn't good enough.
Trends don't buy groceries.
Trends don't pay the rent
or a college tuition.
Trends don't fulfill the
needs within each of us to be
productive, to provide
for our families,
to make the most of our lives,
to reach for our dreams.
So, it's true that
we, as a country,
are in a very different place
than we were when 2009 began.
Because of the Recovery Act and
a number of other steps we've
taken, we're no longer facing
the potential collapse of our
financial system or a
second Great Depression.
We're no longer losing jobs
at a rate of 700,000 a month.
And our economy's growing
for the first time in a year.
But too many of our neighbors
are still out of work because
the growth we've seen hasn't yet
translated into all the jobs we need.
Stung by this brutal recession,
businesses that have kept their
doors open are still wary
about adding workers.
Instead of hiring, many are
simply asking their employees to
work more hours, or they're
adding temporary help.
History tells us this is usually
what happens with recessions --
even as the economy grows, it
takes time for jobs to follow.
But the folks who have been
looking for work without any
luck for months and,
in some cases, years,
can't wait any longer.
For them, I am determined to do
everything I can to accelerate
our progress so we're
actually adding jobs again.
That's why, this week, I invited
a group of business owners from
all across the country to
the White House to talk about
additional steps we can take
to help jumpstart hiring.
We brought together unions and
universities to talk about what
we can do to support our workers
today and prepare our students
to outcompete workers
around the world tomorrow.
We brought together mayors and
community leaders to talk about
how we can open up new
opportunities in our cities and towns.
On Friday, I spent the day
in Allentown, Pennsylvania,
and met with workers and
small business owners there.
I stopped by a steel company
called Allentown Metal Works,
and spoke at Lehigh
Community College.
I visited folks at a
job placement center,
and stopped by a
shift change at Alpo.
The stories and concerns I heard
mirrored the countless letters I
receive every single day.
And they speak louder than any
statistic or government report.
The folks in Allentown -- and in
all the Allentowns across our
country -- are the
most dedicated,
productive workers in the world.
All they're asking for is
a chance, and a fair shake.
And that's exactly what
I'm working to give them.
In the coming days, I'll be unveiling additional ideas aimed
at accelerating job growth and
hiring as we emerge from this
economic storm.
And so that we don't face
another crisis like this again,
I am determined to meet our
responsibility to do what we
know will strengthen our
economy in the long-run.
That's why I'm not going to let
up in my efforts to reform our
health care system; to give our
children the best education in
the world; to promote the
jobs of tomorrow and energy
independence by investing
in a clean energy economy;
and to deal with the
mounting federal debt.
From the moment I was
sworn into office,
we have taken a number of
difficult steps to end this
economic crisis.
We didn't take them because
they were popular or gratifying.
They weren't.
We took these steps because
they were necessary.
I didn't run for President
to pass emergency recovery
programs, or to bail out the banks or to shore up auto companies.
I didn't run for President
simply to manage the crisis of
the moment, while kicking our
most pressing problems down the road.
I ran for President to help
hardworking families succeed and
to stand up for the
embattled middle class.
I ran to fight for a country
where responsibility is still
rewarded, and hard-working
people can get ahead.
I ran to keep faith with the
sacred American principle that
we will deliver to our children
a future of even greater possibility.
And my commitment to
you, the American people,
is that I will focus every
single day on how we can get
people back to work, and how
we can build an economy that
continues to make real
the promise of America for
generations to come.